So there exists a problem with our code.
Well hold on, we're gonna continue
with that same exercise, right?
So we're actually just gonna modify
the code that we have for the next part.
So you don't have to jump into
anything else just so you know, okay.
So there exists a problem with our code.
If you go back and
look at our browser window here
You'll notice that even though
we've been gone, right?
It's actually still
pulling behind the scenes,
which is kind of not ideal for
a couple of reasons.
One, let's say that I'm working on
something here and chatting with someone.
And then I change the window to
this one or something like that.
And then I'm gone for two days, right?
As long as my computer up and Firefox,
hasn't paused to the entire tab,
it's gonna keep pulling, right?
So this window's gonna
be totally up to date.
It's gonna be, getting all the new chat
stuff and rolling in, but me the user,
I'm not seeing any of it.
So who cares, right?
So I'm wasting my server resources by
forcing the client to continue to pull and
I'm also wasting that users CPU cycles,
memory and then data, right?
And I mean you can imagine this could
be something like slack or discord or
something like that where they actually
have a lot of data going back and
forth that could actually be
pretty bad for a user's data cap.
So, how can we fix that?
How can we make it pause on focus?
Well, there's something
called requestAnimationFrame,
which is actually one of my favorite
tools that the browser provides you.
We're not gonna be doing
any animations today.
But you can actually use
requestAnimationFrame which has just
a bunch of stuff built into it.
One of the things that it has built
into it is that when a user unfocuses
the window, it pauses
requestAnimationFrame, which is great.
So anything that you want to just pause
when a user is no longer paying attention
to it, you can just say, hey,
use requestAnimationFrame and
then the browser takes care
of all this stuff for you.
So set timeout would be good if we
definitely didn't wanna pause something.
Which I'm trying to think of something
like let's say that you have like a script
that you wrote that you're trying to find
like a PS5 or something like that, right?
Something that's difficult to find.
You wouldn't want that to pause
in the background, right?
Because if it found something you'd
want it to immediately just say, hey,
I found it, right?
You need to go buy it right now, or
concert tickets or something like that.
So that would be a great use case for
set timeout.
But for something like maybe checking
the weather, you don't need to have up to
the date second weather updates,
if the user is not paying attention and
reading what's coming back
from the weather API, right?
So those are kind of two different reasons
why you might use set timeout versus
requestAnimationFrame.
Okay, so let's go re implement this
in terms of set animation frame.
Sorry, requestAnimationFrame.
So come back here to get new messages.
We're gonna delete the set
timeout line here.
And we're just gonna leave this like this,
right?
So now this function has no concept
of when it's gonna be called again,
we're gonna have something
that's gonna call it rather.
Okay and then come down here to the bottom
and we're gonna replace this here.
This line 61 get new messages.
So we're gonna say let time to
make next request equals 0.
And we're gonna say
async function rafTimer,
that's what I call that.
There's probably a better name for
requestAnimationFrame.
And this accepts a time.
And you're gonna say if,
time to make next request is less than or
equal to time,
time being what is provided back
from requestAnimationFrame
then await get new messages
And then after it has
finished making that request,
as soon as this function has
completed you're gonna say,
timeToMakeNextRequest is
equal time + INTERVAL.
And then down here you'll say
requestAnimationFrame rafTimer.
So, actually already see
a problem with this.
We'll talk about that in a second.
What this function is do is it's gonna be
called by requestAnimationFrame, right?
And that's gonna be given a time, right?
It's like basically what time is it
right now when I'm calling this.
We're gonna have some concept of when the
time to make the next request is right?
And if that time is smaller
than the current time,
the time to make that request has passed.
And then we're gonna call that and
we're just going to say, wait for
this message to come back.
And then once you do, then decide when
the time to make the next request is and
then you'll queue it again basically.
Down here we'll also have to call
requestAnimationFrame rafTimer.
This'll kick it off for
the first time, right?
Which is what we need to do.
So the thing to note about
requestAnimationFrame,
like pulling this function
gets called a ton.
Basically every time that
the browser is idle, right?
Where it's not doing anything else,
it's gonna say, cool,
I have time to kick off a request for
requestAnimationFrame.
So what's also nice about this is this
won't interrupt your browser whereas like
set timeout, as soon as like that timer
finishes, it's a hard halt on anything
else that was doing it's like all right,
it is definitely time now.
I was told to time out in three seconds.
It's timed now, and
it will pause everything else.
So if you're doing a ton of
animations on your screen.
Or I don't know,
something that would cause jank
like streaming video would be
another good example of this.
It will hard halt everything.
Which can cause jank in your UI, right?
Particularly if you're dealing with a lot.
The nice thing with requestAnimationFrame,
it waits for the browser to say, cool,
I'm tided up for
my responsibilities for the moment.
Give me something else to do.
That actually happens a lot.
It will happen thousands
of times a second, right?
So this function gets called a ton.
So this needs to be pretty bare bones,
right?
Don't do a bunch of analytics,
ingesting during this,
you want it to be basically is
the time to run yet yes or no okay and
then I'm done and I'm gonna cue myself
to run again, so it runs really fast.
It sounds inefficient,
it actually works out really well.
Because again,
remember this was built for animations.
And those require like a lot of overhead.
The thing that I realized here
while I was writing this,
that's actually kind of problematic.
Is if this get new messages
takes a long time,
this time can actually be kind of behind,
right?
Because this will be determined when
you call it for the first time so
I actually think you need to see Date.now.
We'll see if this works.
So as a danger of writing code on the fly,
but because you want the time to be from
when this has already finished right,
this could take 20 minutes, right?
We don't want it to run immediately.
We want it to schedule three
seconds further out the future.
Okay, let's see how that works.
So we're gonna refresh the page over here.
Again, notice that it will have dropped
all of your, Okay, that's fine.
Your message is cuz we saved the server.
Yeah, this is what I was afraid, all
right, let's try this with time instead.
Okay, so that is working now.
So I know you'd have to go
figure out what I did, but
it's basically just messing with the time
to make sure that this is correct.
My guess is ones in milliseconds and
one is it's not or something like that.
So if we look down here
at our network tab,
notice this is still pulling
about every three seconds, right?
And actually probably pretty close
to exactly every three seconds.
The nice thing about this
is if I go hop into another
window which you can go
test it on your own.
But if I unfocuses then focus on something
else, it'll keep running for a little bit.
But after a little bit,
the browser is gonna stop
calling requestAnimationFrame and
it's just gonna stop.
So I wonder even if they came over here
and say come in this window and say, Let's
admit that it's not gonna pause
this other tab immediately.
So if I went over there now it probably
actually would have made that request,
yeah, which it did.
But eventually over time it would
stop calling requestAnimationFrame.
And it would pause that and then we would
come back, it will immediately queue that
requestAnimationFrame to run again,
so it'll actually unpause it for you.
So it's pretty seamless, the browser will
do a lot of that heavy lifting for you.
What is the time parameter?
I mean, let's just log it.
Some old timey login.
I don't know why it's old timey.
It just seemed funny to me when I said it.
So you can see here, yeah,
you can see there's actually
very different than date.now.
I think it's milliseconds
since it started running.
So you can see how frequently
this is getting run.
It's getting run a lot.
So I would say every.
100 milliseconds, something like that,
not 100 milliseconds,
rather like every 10 milliseconds
this is getting run.
Tme is hard anyway, it gets a lot.
That's my point.
So yeah, it's just a time that
the browser's giving back.
Yeah, I think this is milliseconds since
the current browser session has started.
And then to answer your question,
we're not providing this to get new
messages here because getting new
messages actually doesn't care, right?
It doesn't use the time
anywhere inside of here, so
it doesn't need to know anything about it.
Again, what's nice about this, let's say
I'm in a different part of my application
and I need to call that endpoint for
a different reason.
I don't have to give it a fake time,
right?
It can just be called so
this function is useful outside of
just being a polling function as well.
>> Shouldn't time to make new requests
be initialized with date.now?
>> Good question line 60 here,
actually that's a really good question.
Why, do I initialise this to zero?
First of all time here, as we just
explained, which I'm sure that person had
asked that previous to that is
actually second since the start.
So this is equal to zero when
the browser starts, right?
And whenever we start this, we want it to
run immediately the first time, right?
So whenever the page loads for
the first time,
I wanted to immediately request all
the messages just from the API.
So I set that to 0, so
that I'm guaranteed whenever this runs for
the first time, time it's gonna execute
this line 63 for the first time, right?
So everything that you and
I just did together is in the pause
on unfocus directory here.
So if you wanna go back and reference
that, or you miss something that you
wanted to go see, that's the state
of what we've coded up so far.
We'll be here on the pause on
unfocused part of the repo.
Before we get into back off and
retry, anyone have any
questions that they wanna ask
about requestAnimationFrame?
Just general coding advice from me
if you're working in browser stuff,
requestAnimationFrame I
think is one misnamed.
It should be called like schedule in
the future because it's useful outside of
animations as you can see here,
I use it for a lot of stuff.
This is definitely not the first time I've
used it in the course I can't remember
which one other ones I've done it, but
suffice to say very useful and yeah,
it's it's awesome.
You can use it for lots of stuff.